uh nowadays there's endless
content but but then content marketing
came to play and
turned the internet into a junkyard of
keyword-based content right which makes
it really hard for you to find
the real good pieces of content for you
to stay up to date
welcome to 20 minute leaders just sit
back relax and learn from the leaders of
today
it's a journey each one is different
unique inspiring
let's get started
this episode is powered by jventures a
community driven vc fund in silicon
valley
in partnership with leumitech sponsored
by hippo insurance
opposed labs touring hillel at stanford
leap and in media partnership with ctek
i love user experience and today i get
to talk to tal florentine the ceo of
samurai exactly about that for the last
decade teleflorentine has been one of
the leading ux specialists in the
israeli market
florentine is a published author speaker
winner of the ux award at san francisco
and founder of the israeli ux
certification program
after leading more than 180 ux design
projects for fortune 100 companies
it became clear to him that audio is
going to be bigger than video
floentine is founded samurai the world's
first branded audio cms
with a promise to allow busy people to
know more with less effort
samoa allows companies to create branded
audio channels add branded audio content
to their customer journeys and promote
audio marketing
tal florentine welcome to 20 minute
leaders thank you so much how are you
today i'm great
thanks for having me thank you for
joining me
during these tumultuous times i know
it's a there's a few
uh zoom school sessions behind you and i
still appreciate you
uh coming and chatting with me about
about your journey through user
experience journeys understanding why
people do what they do
a journey that until now has led you
also to samurai
um which is the intersection of audio
and marketing and i'm excited to learn
about how
you've got it introduced to this world
of audio as a marketing tool and what
does it actually mean
in 2021 and moving forward but if but if
you could just take us back
to you know this idea of of user
experience
ueeks has become you know a word that
has been thrown out
a lot around context and in israel it's
it doesn't seem like it's as a developed
skill or trait
tell me a little bit about user
experience and and how you're
a part of that ecosystem so i i'll go
even backwards um so
my professional experience comes from
joining the army
to what is called mamram the
idf technology unit and i spent
around eight years developing and
managing development of software
uh for the army and i think uh
the 90s and the beginning of the uh
[Music]
the the first uh decade of uh
of uh 2000 2010 i think
we were mainly around uh software
which is organizational and you had to
be taught
how to use a software uh by training
and the assumption was is that using the
software
is a a hard thing to do
and then came the internet and created
some kind of a different type of
interaction between people and
technology and i think we started to
understand that
there's a higher importance to actually
make things intuitive
and help people use products as we
expect them to use
and then came mobile which kind of
flipped everything and created a
situation
where you would basically have 40
seconds
in which you either succeed in making me
a successful user
happy user or i close the app and say
i'll never
i'll open it later but then never open
it later because i just marked it as
something complicated so i think we we
had a very quick turnaround from
assuming that we're going to teach human
beings how to use
our complicated products to the
understanding that there's no teaching
and products have to be uh
usable but then i think the technology
world identified the opportunity to
actually
not just step stop it usable
but also help people behave the way you
want them to behave
or help them do whatever they do so
i think this is kind of the overview of
how i look at the i think 25 years of
technology meeting people from my point
of view
and i think the uh
the industry by now understands that
we have a way to support behavior and
help people
use products the way we want them to use
or the way they
need to use the product and it's not
just you know graphic design
uh align things and make them pretty so
i think doing this transition over the
last uh
uh two decades was something i was
personally involved in
in two different ways one of them is uh
being a designer and actually designing
more than 180
products that people gave me the
responsibility and kind of
this is what i need give me back the
screen that i need
for that uh so so i i
try to create some kind of a calculator
statistic of how many
times i actually took a page a blank
page and and turn it into a
definition of inter interface for a
screen and
i think this happened more than six
thousand times
uh and i think the the nice thing about
it is that i was educated in
uh in the world of software engineering
i have a degree in software engineering
uh and
i i brought logic to that world so
so i i brought the logic of algorithms
asking
there's a question there's a yes or no
at the end and this has to work the same
in design
so you can just either have it or not
have it this doesn't work for me so
i think when i when i identified that
there is
some type of an algorithm you can work
with uh and it didn't exist for me
when i looked for it online uh by the
times i started to work on
projects for other people uh so then i
wrote my book and and
i i turned that into something i teach
so so the other part of my activities
is kind of spreading my my knowledge and
understanding
and helping other people uh find their
way into that market
in an easier process and enjoying
proven algorithms that you can actually
use in order to find the right
design instead of just hoping
that things will work for you which they
never do
so this is the teaching part with
with the user experience you know it's a
it
sounds like it's much more complicated
than just the design process it's
actually the algorithm of thinking
through
how another user will respond to
to what you're showing them and i think
what you articulated before with the
competition
and how you know there's a proliferation
of technologies that are now
competing for the user's attention and
so that so
you know intuitively the these in order
for them to compete they have to be more
accessible they have to be more user
experience friendly
now when you go through this transition
with the ecosystem you mention over the
past two decades and you're
and you're seeing this transition and
you're seeing all these tools come out
in this understanding
what what is it about the world of user
experience that is that is
so different because it seems to me that
that it's sort of this like
odd odd figure in this ecosystem that a
lot that
very few people really know how to deal
with it
why is it like that so
i think there's you have to
have a magical combination of skills in
order for this to be really
what it should be so if we go to human
factors which is kind of the
mother and father of user experience
design you see that
the main thing about human factor design
which
turned into user experience later on is
the fact that it's multi-discipline uh
thing
so so you basically have to mix
different skills
and you know it's so funny when you look
at uh
at uh uh
uh people trying to hire and recruit
professionals they say that you you
it would be good if you have uh uh a
degree from some kind of university
either uh psychology design or
technology
and and you you look at that and you say
but these are three different people
how come you you it's okay for you to
have one degree
this is if you take these three people
and put them in the same room they
wouldn't have something to talk about
they almost have no common ground the
perfect user experience
designer would be the one who has
all three degrees and
who are these people so you would
probably have 10 of them in the world
right and
they're probably not looking for a job
by the way so
right so so this is where it becomes a
magical combination
because you have to bring to the
room uh insights from all uh all of
these disciplines and others
and then the thing is that nobody else
can do that so
if i i come to the room where there's no
designer i'll bring the design point of
view
and if i'll come to the room where
there's a technology gap i'll be able to
to cover the technology gap and if i
come to the room
and everybody is technology and
designers which is kind of what usually
happens
then i bring the human factor into the
room and the only perspective and
behavior
and there's usually no psychologist in
the room by the way i'm not
a psychologist my education is not from
psychology
but i had to learn so much about that so
i think
i i i this is the the main element i had
to
to cover and completely kind of learn on
my own
in order to bring that added value and i
think this added value is magical on
technology world because there is no
you don't have that point of view in the
room uh to begin with
you have 16 developers or people who
started as developers and now they are
the cmo cfoc they say
whatever but you don't have the human
factor
as a standard in each room and then what
happens is that
this is the unique value proposition you
bring to the table and it's always
super valuable because it's it's
there's not not enough people represent
the user
in standard technology sessions
right and so you know we can talk about
user experience for for hours and hours
and i have many many more questions but
this journey uh with your presence in
the user experience field has led you
now to samurai
uh and talking about audio and marketing
and i'm especially curious to hear what
is samurai but also
you know going back and reflecting how
how does your
you know experience with user experience
and as an engineer
how does that play out to the insights
and understanding that you have
as you're building out samurai so so
first of all
let's admit that it's kind of funny that
after designing 6000
screens i actually find the next thing
without a screen right so so it's kind
of
not the the trivial way would expect me
to to continue my uh
journey uh but i think
summery was born in in specific
situation where i
as a as a teacher and as a
professional designer have to be the
most updated
person on the room and there are two
problems one of them is that they don't
have time to to actually
digest the content uh but there are much
more than two problems
the second is that there's too much
information on the web
and when i started dealing with user
experience design there was almost
nothing
uh nowadays there's endless content but
but then content marketing came to play
and
turned the internet into a junkyard of
keyword-based content right which makes
it really hard for you to find
the real good pieces of content for you
to stay up to date
and then add it to the fact that i have
a really hard time reading
uh and finding the time to read and then
add it to the fact that user experience
design is a multi-disciplinary
thing which means that i have to read
everything about everything all the time
uh right so so then you come into a
situation where you just
can't handle it anymore so i try to find
a hack and this is where i i combined it
with crowdsourcing and i hired somebody
to actually summarize articles
for me and then i had to read the
summaries
and i found out that i don't have time
to read the summaries
so then i hired a
a professional uh voice actor and i told
him to
record the summaries that i got and then
i started listening to the
summaries of the articles that i
actually marked and this was
where my first magic happened and i
started getting to the room
as a speaker and telling you there was
just
an article on forbes about that and i
was telling you what's on the
article but i didn't read the article
which is was kind of my secret
sauce so so the med
the the the main element here is that we
found audio to be the way for me to keep
being up to date without spending time
on that and it was
around five years before podcasts became
something that everybody
understands and clubhouse
is a thing right so six
months ago nobody knew what globals is
in the local market a year ago nobody
knew what it is in the
international market so so i think what
happened
on on that point is that i i as a
designer and as a person who's
always trying to figure out what's the
meeting point between technology and
human being and human behavior
is that i found that audio is basically
solving a main problem of
the need to kind of stay up to date
on on top of things and
when i i started samurai as as a
on-demand service but then i moved it
into a b2b
uh service and i think at
that point i'm kind of doing the
the next step of where audio is going uh
a bit
before the market because i think if you
go to marketing
this is where summarize uh today if you
go to marketing and you see that
content marketing is for many for b2b
companies is creating a lot of content
and trying to educate your audience
i think there's no understanding yet
that the audience is not doesn't have
the ability to be educated because they
have too much information and
if you look at their you their timeline
you see that there's no room in my day
to actually
digest your awesome white paper
blog post pdf document or video or
whatever you have there because
i'm filled with too much information
and by the way we all lose because you
created awesome content and i i don't
find a time to be educated so i'm stuck
where i am
so so then we start having our
professional education with
the secondary time with podcasts and so
forth
and then what i think uh
will happen and we're preparing for that
is that companies will understand that
they have to transfer their content
into the secondary time and audio and
it's not podcasts because podcast is
just one type of
content and soundcloud
and clubhouse is live so we actually
have to be there
but i'm talking about situation where
when i bumped into a text
content what i would like to
be able to do is mark that in order for
me to listen to that later
so and even get a summary of that or
something like that so so then you
understand that
creating all your channels which are
branded as a tool for marketing and
uh for creating audio based channels
and repurposing content into audio is
something that's
for me it's kind of the obvious next
step of everything it's kind of where
everything is going to
and it's amazing how
how trivial it is for me and how not
really for the market at that point
uh now do you think that is because you
have so much experience and so many
so much time investigating user behavior
and thinking about consumer behavior
and how people digest information and
and what
what they do with it is is that why you
think you have this
added layer of insight into developing
something that is perhaps even a little
bit before the market which has its own
challenges because
you have to really time it well to make
sure that that you're doing it
at the right time even if we both agree
that in 10 years that's how the world
will be
you have to decide as the you know as
the leader of the ship
you know when when to actually execute
on this
so i think there are two factors in that
uh one of them is the fact that i've
spent my
last six years dealing with this
questions question and the second is
that i come from the state of mind of
user experience design which is kind of
uh an added value for me because i can
mix
the the different elements of that the
design element of that and how i can
kick
create that uh behavior and the
technology element of how to actually
make that work and right the human
behavior of how to create the right
uh uh interaction around that so
so so having that added value and
spending five or six years dealing with
that is kind of i guess
would be a unique thing for uh for
somebody in the market
at that point definitely
definitely tal i really want to thank
you for coming and sharing with me your
journey
both from the user experience
perspective and and with samurai
uh i think that at the end you know the
inspiration that i'm getting from from
this is this idea of
just understanding you know human
behavior understanding
you know customer needs it doesn't come
you know i don't think there's
a textbook that i can read to to define
that but it sounds to me that from your
experiences and from
6 000 screens and you and both your
understanding of technology but your
understanding also of design
and coupled with the the understanding
of how co of the complexity
behind this this question of what we
were talking before about the three
degrees
in a room and having that added value
culminating now in samurai
uh which is changing you know user
behavior consumer behavior of how we
digest content but also how we create
content on the other side of the
marketplace and i think that's just very
very cool
uh i have three final questions for you
a little bit about yourself
what would be your favorite subject in
middle school or high school
so i think i was uh i combined my love
to
uh to sports i think sport was my one
one of my main
uh things but but i think in in the rest
of the time i used to
uh spend my my time uh drawing on the
tables
and i think this was my art school so
all of the time was was kind of
my art school so this is what i i
remember from
from being a student uh kind of spending
time drawing and
and kind of creating my design skills
uh instead of listening to history so so
i think
this would be my favorite subject
amazing who would be one of your role
models or somebody that inspires you
so so i'm not sure i have a formal role
model
uh but if i have to choose uh
one i think it would be donald norman
who is the founder of user experience or
the the person who coined
the definition of of user experience and
but i'd give him two create two factors
of credit for that one of them is the
fact that he actually created a
profession for me to
enjoy for the last uh i i don't know 15
years or so
uh and second because uh
at that point uh i i think one of the
things that i look
up to is people who decide to actually
show the way for others
which is not trivially you kind of
you're we're optimized to following
and not to be to to to be
the ones being followed and i i think
there's a decision making you have to
make
and decide to be the one that actually
provides others they're kind of north
star of where they should go
and this is totally something i take
from him and
i'm following him but but it's kind of
what would it take for me to to take
this decision and be
that for other people this is kind of an
inspiring thought for me
i love that and the last question
what are three words that you would use
to describe yourself
so as i'd go with with the trivial
concept of design meets
logic i think this is kind of my my
double personality combined i think this
is kind of something that represents
all of my uh my professional and
personal
uh journey so yeah
design meets logic i love that thank you
very very much
this was a this was great it was
wonderful thank you for coming
and stay safe and stay healthy thank you
so much